---
title: My experience buying a car in Texas
date: 2025-01-18T00:15:38-05:00
categories: Finance
tags: Car
draft: true
---

I have bought my first car. This is what I learned.

When buying a car, ask for rebates. Look at the trim. Go to toyota.com and build
the car you want. Once the car is built, you will be shown cars near you area
with a similar build. I have heard that you can get exactly the car you want for
cheap, but you must wait 3 months to get it.

The prices that you see in cargurus.com are just the base price, so a \$25,000
car will actually cost \$25,000 plus \$2,000 taxes, plus \$300 in fees plus
whatever made up fees the dealer makes up to steal your money.

Also, I have read that December is a good month to buy a car because salespeople
need to meet objectives.

I have also heard that January and February are good months to buy cars for
cheaper because they are the slowest months because everyone already wasted
their saving on Christmas.

You will need to known your social security number.

Find the MSRP, add the taxes and fees, and try to get that price.

In 2025, January 1, I tried to go to Calvert Toyota to buy a 2024 Corolla Cross.

When I arrived to the appointment, the sells agent complimented me by saying I
looked sharp. I thanked him. He asked if I was planning to go somewhere
afterwards. I said no. In other words, I looked sharp because I meant business.
It means you not wasting their time, and to be frank, I was not.

They will take you to a test drive so you get excited. They will show you a car
that you didn't ask to see, but that they will make more money if they manage to
sell it to you.

While test driving, they will ask you about how you want to finance, your
profession, how long you have been working in that profession, and where you
live. They will also act excited when you say your profession.

I can almost imagine them saying something along the lines of
"You are a janitor at a taco stand!? Wow, that's so impressive! I love
tacos! :yum: :taco:" to try to seem relatable.

After the test drive, they will thank you like the deal is over already so you
get into that mindset before showing you the actual price.

Tried to sell it to me for \$33,140 so I asked for it to be reduced. The sales
agent reduced it to \$29,000. Then I thought about it for a while and asked for
it to be reduced to \$28,900. In other words, I played hard-ball. At that point
I was asked to do a 5-star reviw and refer 4 people to the sales agent. Of
course, they are not supposed to ask you that, but I agreed knowing that they
could not make me comply. Then they played the "let me talk with my manager",
who came out and greeted me. The manager let me know that \$28,900 was too low
and the minimum they could do was \$29,990. I said I could not afford it, that I
was not feeling it. I shook their hand and left.

Eventually I went to a different place. I came home after 3 hours they called me
with a \$200 discount.

Also, there is a law such that even if you are given the car keys, if you don't
drive the car off the lot, the contract gets annulled after 5 days.

According to https://www.kbb.com/toyota/corolla-cross/2025/l/ the car MSRP is
\$25,385, and I payed \$

After about 24 days after my purchase I was told that my license plates were
ready. I went to pick them up from the dealership and went home to install them.
I only needed a screwdriver. I also received my car registration together with
the plates, so I stuck the sicker to the windshield and stored the registration
in the glove box. I have read it is recommended to keep a copy of the
registration in the glove box as opposed to keeping the original.

After a couple of months I received a check refunding me \$23.75. I also
received the Texas Certificate of Title (think of it as the car's birth
certificate).

Also, either the Toyota company or the Toyota dealership have been selling my
data to all kinds of scammy businesses and now I constantly get mail telling me
that I need to call immdiately to activate my car warranty. I get mail
containing discount cards for oil changes. I also got mail from SiriusXM, trying
to get me to buy their radio music services that I do not give a crap about. In
essence, it seems like the whole wide world knows I own a car, specially the
scammers. Also note that I was getting this mail before I wrote any posts about
it.
